in this video we are going to have an
overview of the CD pipeline and
introduce docker
in terms of theory I will give you an
overview of the continuous delivery
pipeline we are going to build together
in the following videos I will also show
you the web application that we are
deploying via the CD pipeline finally I
will introduce docker
which is the technology we are going to
use to build the CD pipeline there is no
practical part of this video I will show
you here what we are going to build in
the next videos let's start with an
overview of the CD pipeline
this is the stage view of the CD
pipeline we are going to build together
I want to show you what you will achieve
by the end of this section so that you
can better follow the implementation of
each step the CD pipeline is defined in
a Jenkins file and contains steps of a
typical CD workflow these steps are
checkout code from github build a simple
Python web application test the Python
code with unit tests deploy the web
application to a development environment
test the application on the development
environment with user acceptance test
deploy the application to a staging
environment test the application on the
staging environment with user acceptance
tests approve the deployment to
production deploy the application to the
production environment test the
application in production with user
acceptance tests here I want to show you
the web application we are going to
build test and deploy via the CD
pipeline
it is a simple web application written
in Python running on localhost and
displaying a random gif of a cat every
time you refresh the page a new random
gif is loaded pretty fun isn't it we are
going to simulate the different
environments by running the development
environment on localhost
and put a t-888
the staging environment on local host on
port 88 and the production environment
on port 80 which defaults to local host
without specifying a code
the web application is written in Python
using the flask web framework and is
packaged and deployed using docker I
reuse the application from an official
docker tutorial and you will see it is
pretty simple to understand it don't
worry if you haven't used Python or
docker before I will guide you through
all the steps let's start by introducing
docker docker is a popular technology
for packaging and deploying applications
via containers the main advantage of
docker is to provide teams with a shared
and consistent environment for
development testing and release of
software in fact docker avoids the
classic but it work on my machine issue
that we described in the past sections
because it packages the application and
all their dependencies as a result it is
very simple to move applications
portably across different environments
so why are we using docker for
deployments inside our CD pipeline first
docker follows the concept of
infrastructure as code that we
encountered in the previous section
docker allows to describe applications
and their configuration as code using a
so called
docker file and makes it trivial to
replicate them across several
environments it also avoids dependencies
complex since all the dependencies are
packaged in a so-called docker image and
it promotes portability and automation
last but not least dr. plays well with
Jenkins and these makes docker an
excellent deployment tool for our CD
pipeline I can give you a full picture
of docker with just a few slides and I
encourage you to look at this technology
if you haven't use it before but there
is one core concept I would like to make
clear as this is often a source of
misunderstanding for newcomers
is the difference between a docker image
and the docker container to explain this
difference I'm going to use an analogy
with object-oriented programming as you
may already be familiar with these
concepts a docker image is like a class
in object-oriented programming in other
words it is a blueprint or if you want a
recipe a way to describe something at a
higher level
conversely docker containers are like
objects in object-oriented programming
in other words the docker container is a
concrete instance of the docker image
exactly how an object is a concrete
instance of a class in object-oriented
programming to extend the analogy to
food the daka container is a dish
following the recipe described in a
docker image bear in mind the difference
between a docker images and docker
containers as we will see it in action
when we run our first docker commands in
the next video this is the end of this
video where we introduce docker and we
have an overview of the CD pipeline and
the web application we are going to
build and deploy in the next videos
watch the next video where we will run
our first docker commands